[Edit] Matplotlib - Python: .subplots() (#6877)
Codecademy/docs: content/matplotlib/concepts/pyplot/terms/subplots/subplots.md

---
Title: '.subplots()'
Description: 'Creates a figure and a grid of subplots with a single function call.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Data Visualization'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Matplotlib'
  - 'Subplots'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> The **`.subplots()`** function is a convenient utility in matplotlib.pyplot that creates a figure and a grid of subplots in a single call. It provides an efficient way to set up multiple plotting areas within one figure, allowing for organized visualization of different datasets or various views of the same data. This function is particularly useful when you need to create complex layouts with multiple charts while maintaining consistency in figure management.
> 
> The primary use cases for `.subplots()` include creating side-by-side comparisons of different datasets, displaying multiple views or transformations of the same data, building dashboard-style visualizations with multiple charts, and organizing related plots in a structured grid layout. It's commonly used in data analysis workflows where multiple related visualizations need to be presented together for comparison or comprehensive analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.subplots()`** function is a convenient utility in [`matplotlib.pyplot`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/matplotlib/pyplot) that creates a figure and a grid of subplots in a single call. It provides an efficient way to set up multiple plotting areas within one figure, allowing for organized visualization of different datasets or various views of the same data. This function is beneficial when creating complex layouts with multiple charts while maintaining consistency in figure management.

The primary use cases for `.subplots()` include creating side-by-side comparisons of different datasets, displaying multiple views or transformations of the same data, building dashboard-style visualizations with multiple charts, and organizing related plots in a structured grid layout. It's commonly used in data analysis workflows where multiple related visualizations need to be presented together for comparison or comprehensive analysis.
```

]

# Plot each function
for i, (y_data, title, equation, color) in enumerate(functions):
  axes[i].plot(x, y_data, color=color, linewidth=2, label=equation)
  axes[i].set_title(title)
  axes[i].grid(True, alpha=0.3)
  axes[i].legend()

  # Add y-label only to left column
  if i % 2 == 0:
    axes[i].set_ylabel('y')

  # Add x-label only to bottom row
  if i >= 2:
    axes[i].set_xlabel('x')

# Set overall title
fig.suptitle('Mathematical Functions Comparison', fontsize=16, fontweight='bold')

# Adjust layout
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()
```

The output generated by this code will be:

![2x2 grid of line plots comparing linear, quadratic, cubic, and exponential functions with titles and legends](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/subplots-3.png)

This scientific example showcases how `.subplots()` can be used to compare different mathematical functions in a systematic way. The shared x-axis (`sharex=True`) ensures all plots use the same x-range, making comparison easier. This approach is common in research papers and educational materials where multiple related functions or datasets need to be presented together.

> ## Frequently Asked Questions
> 
> ### 1. What's the difference between `.subplots()` and `.subplot()`?
> 
> `.subplots()` creates a figure and all subplots at once, returning the figure and axes objects, while `.subplot()` creates or selects individual subplots one at a time within the current figure. `.subplots()` is more convenient for creating multiple subplots simultaneously.
> 
> ### 2. How do I access individual subplots when using a 2D grid?
> 
> For a 2D grid, the axes are returned as a 2D numpy array. Access them using indices like `axes[0, 1]` for row 0, column 1, or use `axes.flatten()` to convert to a 1D array for easier iteration.
> 
> ### 3. Can I create subplots with different sizes?
> 
> Yes, use the `width_ratios` and `height_ratios` parameters to specify relative sizes. For example, `width_ratios=[2, 1]` makes the first column twice as wide as the second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Frequently Asked Questions

### 1. What's the difference between `.subplots()` and `.subplot()`?

The `.subplots()` function creates a figure and all subplots at once, returning the figure and axes objects, while `.subplot()` creates or selects individual subplots one at a time within the current figure. `.subplots()` is more convenient for creating multiple subplots simultaneously.

### 2. How do I access individual subplots when using a 2D grid?

For a 2D grid, the axes are returned as a 2D numpy array. Access them using indices like `axes[0, 1]` for row 0, column 1, or use `axes.flatten()` to convert to a 1D array for easier iteration.

### 3. Can I create subplots with different sizes?

Yes, use the `width_ratios` and `height_ratios` parameters to specify relative sizes. For example, `width_ratios=[2, 1]` makes the first column twice as wide as the second.
```
